So, guys, now let us try to understand that CPU generates only virtual addresses while executing your
program.
So variables in the programs are just symbolic names of addresses.
Right.
So you must have written a program and that particular program, you must have defined certain variables
like variable and A and B and C are in many others.
So those variables and the programs are just symbolic names of addresses.
Variables are there for our convenience so that we can read and write computer instructions and human
readable format.
Right.
Can you imagine the situation that instead of using variable names, we had to use Darroch memory locations
or addresses in order to save our value, how horrible our program would have been look like, in fact,
we would not be able to recognize already short program only after a few minutes.
You have written right.
So variables are there for our convenience.
At the lowest level, programs are translated into machine code, which only deals with virtual addresses.
The machine code do not deal with variable names.
Write machine code is not aware of variable name like in A, B or C or any other variable name.
Variable names are replaced by their actual virtual address locations in the machine code.
So your program translates into machine code after compilation in machine code, vegetables are replaced
by their actual virtual addresses machine code then execute and perform, read and write operations
using addresses of variables instead of variable names.
Right.
So just to take an example, suppose in your program you have a variable E and inside that variable
you are storing value 10.
Right?
So this instruction after compilation would look something like this.
Now, this piece of instruction is actually a code of assembly language.
I cannot write machine code directly because machine code is all binary.
So assembly code is actually that piece of code which is closest to the machine code.
And therefore, I have written here the assembly code, which is equivalent to this line of instruction
of your high level program, so you can see that this piece of code actually talks about only in terms
of addresses.
That is no variable name is used in this instruction.
Now, SBP is a base pointer register and you will understand this instruction only if you had gone through
the stack memory section of the schools thoroughly.
We were going to do a little recap in the next slide.
So Machine Code is not aware of any variable name like in A and to be exact, Robert, you have used
everywhere in your high level program.
We have already learned that all local variables, an argument of a function are accessed by C.P.U,
by adding or subtracting to this point a register of the current stack frame.
Right.
Now, I want you to recall the usage of bears point to register when we were discussing the stark memory
management in the previous section of this course.
So let us do a little recap in the next slide and try to understand that when you execute your program,
it references every variable of your program using virtual addresses instead of using symbolic names.
So, guys, now let us do a little recap.
This is like must be familiar to you.
We discussed this last night when we were discussing Stack Memory Management.
Right.
So in this slide, you have a program on the left hand side and this program is actually executing in
its function a right.
So because the function is currently in execution, therefore static memory contains that static frame
corresponding to the function on the top of stack.
So you can see that this is a stark frame of the function.
Now I expect you that you already know that how this stack frame was built.
So the point that I'm trying to emphasize and this is light, is this point that is best point.
The registered value is used by the processor to reference arguments and local variables of the current
stack in execution.
Right.
So you can see that as part of this diagram, the value of base pointer register is the following address.
Now for simplicity, let us assume that this represents hundred, right?
So if the processor wants to access the variable D now, B is a local variable of the function.
E, right.
So if the processor wants to access and perform, read or write operation on the variable D, the processor
will generate an address 96.
Right.
The addresses are generated in related to the base point, the registered value.
Now the best pointers to value, for example, contains 100 or so hundred minus four means 96.
So 96 in this example will be the virtual address of the variable.
Similarly, if the processor wants to access variable C, it will generate an address ninety-two right,
similarly to access the variable, A, the processor will generate a virtual address.
Hundred and eight.
And to access the variable B, the processor will generate a virtual address.
Hundred and.
So the point I'm trying to make here is that that whenever a processor executes our program and during
the course of execution of the program, if the CPU or processor wants to perform, read or write operation
on your Redoubles processor issues or generates virtual address of those wearables, processor is not
aware of the symbolic names.
That is DC or B, right.
So going forward, seepages millions of virtual addresses during the course of execution of a process
that is generated.
Virtual addresses are then mapped to corresponding physical address by AMMU using a concept called Paging
Right.
So we are about to dive deep into the concept of paging.
We are in the process of building basics.
C.P.U then issued the instruction to either read or write the data on the mapped physical addresses.
Now let us understand the entire picture in totality on the next slide.